[codex] Incorporate Benoit's about page feedback (#40)
dataders/fusion_issue_analysis: dashboard/about.md

Second, the ceiling caveat, which is sharper: I was measuring *how much work did the agent do*, not *what's the highest ceiling the agent could reach*. Traditional BI tools typically offer a fixed menu of chart types. One of the actual promises of agentic authoring is generating *anything* — novel forms, bespoke layouts, visualizations no chart picker would ever surface. My toy dataset never needed that. So I haven't tested that ceiling at all, and that ceiling might be exactly where these layers get jagged in ways that matter.

What I can say is: Jacob Matson's `mviz` has clear, opinionated defaults that are gorgeous out of the box, Prefab let me theme an entire dashboard like a Windows 2000 desktop, and Quarto absolutely owns the narrative-report end of the spectrum. The differentiation here is about taste and authoring vibe. If your goal is "ship something that loads and shows the right numbers," all of these got me there — but your mileage may vary once the requirements get real.

> The [decision guide](#decision-guide) further down lays out which to pick if you have a specific need.

Author: i'd actually prefer to just nuke the decision guide

#### The MCP-app argument

> Jacob has been making the case for a while — most directly in his MotherDuck post on [vibe coding coming for BI](https://motherduck.com/blog/vibe-coding-comes-for-bi/) — that the future of dashboard distribution looks less like "send your coworker a URL" and more like "tell your agent to load this dashboard." His [mviz](https://github.com/matsonj/mviz) has an MCP server in the works that does exactly this, and MotherDuck's Dives are already loadable as MCP apps from inside Gemini and Claude.

Author: is this what he is saying in that blog though?!?! he did say MCP app is the medium to me in another convo, but you need to actually bring up the article afterwards as a follow on and ICE (introduce, cite, explain) it in a standalone sentence or two

I buy it as a UI distribution channel. The argument is basically: if everyone is going to be talking to an agent all day anyway, the agent becomes the new operating system, and dashboards are just one more thing the agent can pull up. Browser tabs become legacy.

The reason it took me a while to come around is that I was conflating layer 7 (where do users see this thing?) with layer 2 (how does this thing get its data?). They're two different questions. "Dashboard lives in an MCP app" doesn't tell you whether the dashboard's data is baked, live-queried, or fetched through an MCP server at load time. You can cross-product the two layers however you want.

> That said — Jason Ganz has been pushing me on a related angle in our 1:1s, and sketched a closely related thesis in his recent [AE Roundup on BI's second unbundling](https://roundup.getdbt.com/p/bis-second-unbundling): if the consumption surface is an agent anyway, why not make the *data layer* MCP-shaped too? Build the dashboard demo on top of the dbt MCP server, with the messaging being "Claude + dbt MCP + a static dashboard framework = a fully functional BI solution."

Author: wrong again! this post wasn't written by Ganz. but yes use his name. instead this is a Tristan post!
https://github.com/dataders/fusion_issue_analysis/pull/40/changes#r3190301779

If I bake my dashboard into HTML and ship it to GitHub Pages, the entire internet can see it. If I want only my coworkers to see it, my options today are: stand up a real web app, put it behind a corporate VPN, or wedge it into an existing BI tool. None of these are "static dashboard"-shaped solutions.

> That "static host with SSO baked in" idea Jason and I keep sketching — basically GitHub Pages, but it accepts an OIDC config and gates the whole site behind SSO — is really just a permission model applied to the browser surface. No app, no backend, no database. Just `git push` and "only people in my org can see this." The auth story is downstream of figuring out the agent personas. Get the permission model right first, and the auth infrastructure becomes obvious.

Author: there's a rephrase that's more like the below.

> Tristan called this out in his roundup.
> This isn't a BI specific problem, this is a front-end web problem. For which we have many vendors like Vercel and OSS OIDC plugins that can be added to support authentication.
> The interesting aspect to consider is that there's a good chance that coding agents have unbundled BI and front end development irrevocably: is this the end of browsers and the internet as we know it? Here I am in 2026 astounded at the easy by which agents can ship dashboards to a browser, but that might be irrelevant, because in the near future everyone is viewing information not in a browser but in a bespoke agent interface like chat (or something else)?

<span id="decision-guide"></span>

> ## Decision guide

Author: nuke this whole section and any reference to it please

There's also a deeper version of the argument, which is that *visuals do work that prose cannot.* Anscombe's Quartet is the canonical proof — four datasets with identical means, variances, and correlation coefficients that look completely different when you plot them. A model can summarize the statistics until the cows come home; it cannot, from the statistics alone, tell you that one of those datasets has an outlier and another is a perfect line. Charts aren't just a stylistic preference — they're a different information channel. So I think both modes coexist, and the dashboard stack still needs to exist for the contract-shaped and the visually-load-bearing questions, even if the surface area shrinks.

> OK. That's where I am. If you have answers to any of those questions up top, or if you're working on the "static-host-with-SSO" problem, find me on [GitHub](https://github.com/dataders) or wherever. I want to compare notes.

Author: ```suggestion
OK. That's where I am. If you have answers to any of those questions up top, or if you're working in this problem space please reach out! find me on [GitHub](https://github.com/dataders) or wherever. I want to compare notes.
```
